# Redbrick Helpdesk Exam: AGM 2024

##### Created by yours `ayden` & `fbaxter`
- This exam consists of 30 questions, each worth 3 marks, for a total of 75. +2 bonus
- 40% (30 marks) is required to pass.
- Attempt marks will be granted where appropriate.
- Please write your answers in the answer section at the bottom of this page and label your answers clearly.
- Document will be locked when the time is up.
- Godspeed and go help those desks!

## Questions

### A: General (15 marks)
1. How do you log into Redbrick? (list all the steps required)
2. What is a shell? What is the default shell on Redbrick?
3. How would I install both Ubuntu and Windows on my laptop?
4. I have a folder called `homework`, how do I add them into a `tar.gz` archive (example `homework.tar.gz`)
5. How can I have both Windows and Linux on my laptop/PC?

### B: Redbrick Services (15 marks)
1. What are each of these services used for?
    - `md.redbrick.dcu.ie`
    - `wetty.redbrick.dcu.ie`
    - `paste.redbrick.dcu.ie`
2. Name any 3 servers in Redbrick's nomad cluster. (bonus mark for the cluster name)
3. How can I have multiple windows inside of one terminal session, how do you switch windows in it?
4. What is the name of the weekly Redbrick workshop session organised by helpdesk?
5. How do I change my password on Redbrick?

### C: Webspace and Docs (15 marks)

1. I have created a site on my own machine. How do I transfer the files to my redbrick webspace? List the steps.

2. Fix the errors here in the `~/.ssh/config` that makes you use an alias to login to Redbrick.
```
Host rb
HostName pyg.brick.dcu.ie
        user ayden
```
3. What is Markdown? Can you provide an example of what it is useful for?
4. I've loaded some html and CSS files into my `public_html` folder but I get an 403 error when I visit the website. How do I fix this error?
5. Where should I go to view my Redbrick website? And What are you not allowed to host on your Redbrick webspace?

### D: Email (15 marks)

1. How can I access my Redbrick emails directly? (not through DCU Email Address)
2. All of my Redbrick emails are being forwarded to my DCU email address! How can I turn this off?
3. What is the correct etiquette for replying to emails sent to `helpdesk@redbrick.dcu.ie` or `committee@redbrick.dcu.ie`?
4. What is the preferred method of reaching out to Helpdsek/Committee
5. True or False: `your_dcu_username@redbrick.dcu.ie` forwards to `your_redbrick_username@redbrick.dcu.ie`?

### E: Scenarios & Etiquette (15 marks)
_Briefly outline how you'd respond to these scenarios/messages/emails!_
1. "Hemlo,
    My friend took my redbrick password and is now doing sussy things with it OwO. Help me plij."
2. "Hai redbrick, Iz wantz 2 chaneg mah nicknaem 2 superbigracist how doez i doez it?"?
3. "I have a complaint about kitty `browner`. He keeps meowing and I find it very offensve. I wish to report him and get him ~~shot~~ excommunicated off the committee. How do I do it?"
4. You got an email which says:
`4920616D2061206C656574206865636B657220616E6420692077696C6C20746F74616C6C792064646F732075722069702E20446F6E742062656C69657665206D653F20497473203132372E302E302E312120596F75206265747465722062652061667261696420646F726B2E202D66626178746572`. (Bonus mark for providing the translation)
6. Hi I would like to renew my membership, how do I do it?

### `b  o  n  u  s  r  o  u  n  d`
> _This round carries no marks but will make correcting your exam far less boring!_

1. should the admins resign? explain.
2. Is mail fixed yet? and what are your demands!
3. Who's the better helpdesk? Explain in at least 1,500 words.
4. What are the standard admin sleeping hours?
5. Have you ever seen `distro` offline? (YOU HAMMERED YOUR MOTHER)
6. *have ya ever had a pint of Guinness?* (see below)
```
 ⢀⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⡀⠀
⠀⣼⡏⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⢹⣧⠀
⠀⣿⣥⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣬⣿⠀
⢀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡄
⠘⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠃
⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀
⠀⢹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡟⠀
⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡇⠀
⠀⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀⠀
⠀⠀⢹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡏⠀⠀
⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀
⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠈⠉⠉⢹⣿⣿⡋⠉⠉⠉⠉⠁⠀⠀
⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠙⠛⠛⠛⠛⠛⠛⠛⠛⠋⠀
```

# Answers

#### A: General


#### B: Redbrick Services


#### C: Webspace and Docs


#### D: Email


#### E: Scenarios and Etiquette


#### `b o n u s  r o u n d`


