Redbrick Helpdesk Exam: AGM 2022
===
### 
##### Created by yours truly tzermalt & cawnj

- This exam consists of 30 questions, each worth 3 marks, for a total of 90.
- 40% (36 marks) is required to pass.
- Attempt marks will be granted where appropriate.
- Please write your answers in the answer section at the bottom of this page and label your answers clearly.
- Document will be locked when the time is up.
- Happy helpdesking!!!

Questions
===
### A: General (15 marks)
1. How do you log into Redbrick?
2. What are vim and nano? How do I exit each of them when I'm done?
3. What is a shell? What is the default shell on Redbrick?
4. How would I install both Ubuntu and Windows on my laptop?
5. What command do I use to extract a tar.gz file (example homework.tar.gz)?

### B: Redbrick Services (15 marks)
1. What would you use each of the following for?
    - `md.redbrick.dcu.ie`
    - `wetty.redbrick.dcu.ie`
    - `wiki.redbrick.dcu.ie`
    - `paste.redbrick.dcu.ie`
2. Name two of Redbrick servers.
3. What are screen/tmux used for?
4. How do I change my password on Redbrick?
5. What is the name of the weekly Redbrick programming workshop?

### C: IRC (15 marks)
1. What is IRC and what does it stand for?
2. How do I join the Redbrick IRC?
3. How can I join new channels on IRC?
4. How can I start a new direct message with someone on IRC?
5. What does "/whois distro" do?

### D: Webspace (15 marks)
1. How do I set up of one of these sick Redbrick webspaces??
2. I've loaded some html and CSS files into my `public_html` folder, but I get a 403 error when I try to visit my site. What's going on?
3. What is Markdown? Can you provide an example of what it is useful for?
4. Where should I go to view my Redbrick website?
5. What are you not allowed to host on your Redbrick webspace?

### E: Email (15 marks)
1. What is the correct etiquette for replying to emails sent to `helpdesk@redbrick.dcu.ie` or `committee@redbrick.dcu.ie`?
2. How does I access my Redbrick emails directly? (not forwarded to my DCU address)
3. All of my Redbrick emails are being forwarded to my DCU email address! How can I turn this off?
4. What platforms do we use to allow people to contact committee/helpdesk?
5. True or False: your_student_number@redbrick.dcu.ie forwards to your_username@redbrick.dcu.ie ?

### F: Scenarios & Etiquette (15 marks)
_Briefly outline how you'd respond to these scenarios/messages/emails!_
1. Hey there, I need a password reset on my account. My username is branch. Can you help?
2. Can you please unsubscribe me from this mailing list?
3. I have a complaint to make about a current committee member/talk. This is a sensitive issue and I feel offended/worried/uncomfortable. Is there anything that can be done?
4. Hey there, I was wondering if someone from Redbrick would be able to go over some of my lecture material with me before my big exam! Can you help me?
5. Hi I would like to promote a job offer for no money/some money/too much money to be true, do you have anyone who'd be interested?

### `b  o  n  u  s  r  o  u  n  d`
_This round carries no marks but will make correcting your exam far less boring!_

1. Are there any talks or events you'd like us to organise? Any talks you'd like to give personally?
2. If you needed something from a sys admin how would you bribe them?
3. Who is favourite committee member and WHY?
4. If you had a choice, what would you name a new Redbrick server?
5. How do you pronounce cawnj?
6. Pineapple on pizza? Discuss in no less than 100 words.
