# Redbrick Webmaster Exam: AGM 2024

|                |                  |
| -------------- | ---------------- |
| Time allocated | 24 hours         |
| Start          | 16:00 20/03/2024 |
| End            | 16:00 21/03/2024 |

> [!NOTE] This exam consists of 2 sections: theory and practical. You must score 60% in each section; overall mark does not matter.

> [!WARNING] This exam is open book, but do not blindly follow online resources. Evidence of copy and pasting or generative AI will be apparent in the practical section. Concise, coherent and accurate answers will be marked favourably in the theory section.

## Theory Section

1. State a method of horizontally centering a  `<div>` HTML element with CSS.

```

```

2. What is the key difference between the `<div>` and `<span>` HTML elements?

```

```

3. Explain the `srcset` and `sizes` HTML attributes and their role in implementing responsive images on the web.

```

```

4. What do the terms SEO and ARIA mean, in relation to the web? What are the semantic HTML elements, and how do they relate to SEO and ARIA?

```

```

5. What are events in JavaScript, and how does event bubbling work? How is event bubbling utilised in event delegation?

```

```

6. What are Web Components? Briefly describe the *three* main technologies which compose the Web Component specification.

```

```

7. List the *four* CRUD operations and the respective HTTP method for each.

```

```

8. What does REST stand for, and what are the key principles of a RESTful API?

```

```

9. Explain the `Authorization` HTTP header and *two* valid schemes that can be used.

```

```

10. Describe HTTPS (HTTP Secure) communication and the main advantage over HTTP.

```

```

11. How does browser caching work, and why is it important?

```

```

12. What is the main purpose of a Content Delivery Network (CDN)?

```

```

13. Briefly describe the processes of file minification, bundling, and compression, in the context of web performance.

```

```

14. What is a bundler in web development? List *two* popular bundlers used in modern projects.

```

```

15. Compare and contrast Single Page Applications (SPAs) and Multi-Page Applications (MPAs), including their definitions, key characteristics, and use-cases.

```

```

16. Describe the Jamstack software architecture, its benefits, and its main differences from traditional server-driven architectures.

```

```

17. What is a Static Site Generator (SSG)? List *two* popular SSGs in the Jamstack ecosystem and give reasons for their popularity.

```

```

18. How is data integrated in Jamstack web applications, during both run-time and build-time, from data sources such as Content Management Systems (CMS) and third-party APIs?

```

```

19. What is Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Hydration, and when would they be used in Jamstack web applications?

```

```

20. Briefly describe serverless functions and their role in implementing dynamic functionality in Jamstack web applications at run-time.

```

```

## Practical Section

>[!INFO] This practical is technology-agnostic, so you have freedom to choose frameworks and the tech stack. This will assess not only your expertise with web technologies but also your choice of software architecture for the requirements. An excellent practical satisfies the steps below, while going beyond what is required to create a simple project with solid UI, maintainability, security and performance.

### 1. Set Up Git Repository

- Create a Git repository on GitHub.
- Give `@JedHazaymeh` admin access to the repository.

### 2. Set Up Project Structure

- Create a directory called `site`.
- Work within the `site` directory for the frontend development.

### 3. Create Hoodie Purchase Form

- Create a simple HTML form with the following input fields:
    - Username
    - Affiliation (Redbrick/Blueblock)
    - Size (XS/S/M/L/XL)
    - Amount
- Apply styling to the fields:
    - Drop shadows
    - Rounded corners
    - Border colour change on focus with a transition
- Add an image above the form displaying a hoodie based on the `Affiliation` field.
- Validate the following fields on form submission:
    - Username:
        - Input is 4-16 characters in length.
        - Contains only alphanumeric characters, -, _.
    - Amount:
        - Input is a number.
        - Input is within the range 1-5.

### 4. Set Up Development Server

- Include a simple dev server to locally serve the static files.
- You can use Vite, a bundler, or a static site generator for this purpose.

### 5. Set Up API Service

- In the root directory, create a directory called `api`.
- Work within the `api` directory for the backend development.
- Create a simple RESTful API service using a HTTP request multiplexer (mux) written with Express.js, FastAPI, etc.
- Add a `POST /hoodies` endpoint to accept the form data and respond with a rendered HTML page containing the order confirmation.

### 6. Connect Frontend with Backend

- Edit the form in the `site` directory to send the HTTP request to the API and render the page response accordingly.

### 7. Update & Secure on GitHub

- Push all the changes to the GitHub repository.
- On GitHub, secure the main branch so that no more changes can be pushed without a pull request.
