# Redbrick Webmaster Exam: AGM 2023

`Time allocated: 1 hour`

This paper consists of 2 sections to test your knowledge of web technologies.

*Attempt marks are awarded for each question.*

## Section A (40 marks)

1. List the 4 *CRUD* operations and the respective *HTTP* method for each. **[4 marks]**
```

```
2. List 3 methods of horizontally centering HTML elements (text or divs) with CSS. **[3 marks]**
```

```
3. What is an *event* in JavaScript and how does event emitting and subscribing work? **[3 marks]**
```

```
4. Explain the *Authorization* HTTP header and list 2 valid *schemes* that can be used. **[3 marks]**
```

```
5. What is *Webpack* and what purpose does it serve in web development? **[5 marks]**
```

```
6. Explain and name two examples of *web server* software. **[4 marks]**
```

```
7. Briefly explain each of the following: **[5 marks]**
  * React hooks
  * useState
  * useEffect
  * useRef
```

```
8. List 4 open-source *static site generators*. **[4 marks]**
```

```
9. Explain the *DOM* in a web context. **[5 marks]**
```

```
10. What is meant by the term *CMS*, and name an example of a *headless* CMS. **[4 marks]**
```

```

## Section B (60 marks)
>*The following questions can be answered with your preferred stack (HTML/CSS/JS, React, Tailwind, etc).*

1. Create a simple form which Redbrick members can fill out to purchase hoodies, with the following input fields: **[15 marks]**
  * Username
  * Email address
  * Hoodie colour (Grey/Black)
  * Size (XS/S/M/L/XL)
  * Amount
```

```
2. Add the following styling to the fields: **[10 marks]**
  * Drop shadows
  * Rounded corners
  * When focused, a new border colour
  * A transition to the border colour change
```

```
3. Add an image above the form which displays a hoodie, either in the colour *Grey* or *Black*, depending on the input of the `Hoodie colour` field. **[15 marks]**
```

```
4. Add validation to the form which, on submission, validates the following fields: **[20 marks]**
* `Username`
  * Input is 4-16 characters in length.
  * Only contains alphanumerical characters, -, _.
* `Email address`
  * Input is a valid email address.
* `Amount`
  * Input is a number.
  * Input is within the range 1-5.
```

```
