# Admin Exam AGM 2023

Please include a brief description of what you did under each section, and include any commands you think are important. Please don't include every command. I will mark you down if I see the entire output of `ls -alR /`.

Note that you have to get at least 70% in each section to pass. It doesn't matter what you get overall.

## Theory Section

### Redbrick (15 marks)

1. Name the servers currently in `aperture`.
2. A user has hit their disk quota and wants an increase. Where is this configured?
3. What is abuse? How is it handled in Redbrick?

### Networking (20 marks)

1. How can you check if an IP address is in use without using ping?
2. What should you consider when changing DNS records? (Provide as much detail as you like)
3. What does a firewall do? What method would you use to grant access to a new service? (concept, not actual configs)
4. What are subnets?

### Misc (15 marks)

1. How are files stored on a disk? How do you access them from an Unix based operating system?
2. What is a hard link?
3. How would you mount a remote file system located at `storage.redbrick.dcu.ie` to your local file system, at `/storage`?

## Practical Section

### Databases (15 marks)

1. Setup a database of your choice.
    2. Choose wisely, you will be judged on the database you pick.
3. Create a user on that database called `pox` using the password to your VM, and allow them access to the database remotely.
4. Import the database schema dump from [here](https://github.com/jOOQ/sakila) and grant all privileges to `pox` on the imported tables.

### LDAP (20 marks)

1. What is LDAP?
2. Set up an LDAP server.
    1. Use `o=redbrick` for the organisation.
    2. Create organisation units groups and users
    3. Create an LDAP user called `pox` under the organisational unit "users". Use the following credentials for them.
```
user: pox
password: the password to your VM
home: /home/pox
shell: /bin/bash
```
4. Allow SSH authentication through LDAP.
    5. This means LDAP user `pox` should be able to log into your VM via `ssh pox@$your-vm` with their password. They should need a local account to do this.
    6. Their home directory should be created upon login if it does not exist.

### Docker (15 marks)

1. Install docker on your VM.
2. Spin up a hedgedoc container.
3. Connect it to your LDAP instance. User `pox` should be able to log in with their user account password.
4. Any and all directories should be persistent.

### Nomad (15 marks)

1. What is nomad?
2. Why would nomad be used in place of some other container/job orchestration tool?
3. Create a single node nomad deployment, running a service of some description on port 80 of your VM.
    1. A webserver of some description will get you fairly far with this

### DNS (25 marks)

1. What is an A record? What is a CNAME record?
2. How do you create an A record in a DNS server (such as bind9)?
3. What steps would you perform to update an authoritive list of DNS records? Be as specific as you like.
4. Create an authoritive DNS server for your VM domain (.username-vm). Add the following records to it:
```
A web.<username>-vm
A ldap.<username>-vm
```

### Security (10 marks)

Secure your VM to the best of your ability. Turning it off will get you no marks.

Note: both your own user and the "admin" user must still be allowed to connect.

### Scripting (15 marks)

1. Write a script that scans a directory and finds all files that can be written to by all users, printing their name and path to stdout.
2. Write a script that prints a list of all users on the server to stdout, sorted alphabetically by password hash.
3. Write a script that entertains us.

