# Admin Root Exam: EGM 2024

Time allocated: `15 hours`

Start: `12:00 06/02/2024` @ Nubar

End: `03:00 07/02/2024`

> You must get 60% in each section to pass. Your overall mark doesn't matter.

> [!NOTE] Note:
> This exam is open book. That doesn't mean you can blindly follow any resource you find online/chatGPT. 
> It's your job to use the various resources available to you to complete the given task

> For webmaster root you must complete Theory sections 1, 2 & 5 and Practical sections 1 & 6.1-6.3

## Theory Section [71]

### 1. GNU/Linux ðŸ§ [10]

1. What is Linux?
2. Why use Linux over MacOS/Windows on servers?
3. What does FOSS mean?
4. What is UNIX? How is it different from Linux?
5. What is the best Linux distribution? *(be careful, we care about personal hygiene)*
	- mention at least 2 to be safe 

### 2. Redbrick [12]

1. Name the servers in `aperture`
2. Name at least 2 old redbrick servers
3. What is NixOS?
4. What is an immutable file system? Why/How?
5. What is Nomad?
6. Why would you use Nomad over another system? *(e.g. Docker swarm, kubernetes etc.)*
7. On a scale of 0 to 9, how much does James enjoy NixOS?

### 3. Networking [10]

1. What is a subnet?
2. What is a NIC?
3. What is a VLAN, what are they used for?
4. What is DNS? What port does it use? Why is it important?
6. What is an A record? What is a CNAME record?
7. What is a subnet mask?
8. Give the following subnet masks in CIDR notation:
	- `255.255.255.255`
	- `255.255.255.0`
	- `255.255.0.0`
	- `0.0.0.0`

### 4. Filesystems [12]

1. What is RAID? Explain each of the following RAID setups:
    - RAID0
    - RAID1
    - RAID10
2. What is an `inode`?
3. Explain what these programs are used for:
	- `sync`
    - `umount`
    - `df`
    - `du`
    - `stat`
4. In Linux filesystems, what are `uid` and `gid`?

### 5. Git [12]

1. What is git? Why would you use it?
2. You've made uncommitted changes to some files in a git project folder. You fucked up, what do you do?
3. You have committed some changes to a git repository. When you go to push, it tells you that your local repo is out of sync with `origin` (fast-forward failed) how to you proceed?

### 6. Virtualisation [5]

1. What is a container?
2. List the advantages and disadvantages between Docker and LXC?
3. What makes containers different from virtual machines?

### 7. Misc [10]

1. What is a UPS? What would you use it for? Where would you put it?
2. What is an IP-KVM? Why and when would you use one?
3. What is PAM?
4. What is LDAP? When would you use it?
5. How would you kill the process running the following shell script?

```bash
#!/bin/sh

trap : SIGTERM
while :; do sleep 1; done
```

### Suggestions/Improvements

1. As a new sysadmin, what cool new things would you like to improve/introduce in Redbrick? 
	- *(not marked, but you should still have an idea)*

---

## Practical Section [144]

> [!NOTE] 
> Please include a brief summary of the steps you took to complete each question

### 1. Security [12]

1. Secure your vm to your best ability

> There are many ways to accomplish this, the best approach is a well-rounded holistic one

### 2. DNS [25]

> If you get stuck here, don't worry, come back to it later

1. Install a DNS server of your choice on your vm
2. Make it the authoritative DNS server for your vm's domain `*.<username>-vm` and add A records for `web.<username>-vm` and `ldap.<username>-vm`

### 3. LDAP [25]

1. Install an LDAP server on your vm
2. Set up an LDAP server
	- Use `o=redbrick` for the organisation.
	- Create organisation units groups and users
	- Create an LDAP user called `morpeus` under the organisational unit `users`. Use the following credentials for them.

```
user: morpheus
password: the password to your VM
home: /home/morpheus
shell: /bin/bash
```

3. Allow `morpheus` to login over SSH through LDAP
	- This means LDAP user `morpheus` should be able to log into your VM via `ssh morpheus@$your-vm` with their password. They shouldn't need a local account to do this.
    - Their home directory should be created upon login if it does not exist.

### 4. File Share [10]

1. Set up your vm to provide storage over the network
2. mount this file share to your local machine and transfer some files
	- send proof of this (screenshot etc.)

### 5. Database [12]

1. Setup a standalone database for your applications to connect to - *you will be judged by the database you choose*
2. Create a user called `habibi`
3. Leave a special message for the admins and grant `habibi` access to it
4. Backup this database to a file.

### 6. Docker [25]

1. Install docker on your vm
2. Set up [HedgeDoc](https://hedgedoc.org/) in a docker container and connect it to a sensible database - *or don't?*
	- any and all HedgeDoc data should be persistent
3. Grab the logs from the HedgeDoc container and paste them here.
4. Set up a reverse proxy of your choice in a docker container and connect it to HedgeDoc *(for full marks a self signed cert is expected here, no more than that is needed)*
5. Set up HedgeDoc to use LDAP for auth
	- User `morpheus` should be able to login with their username and password

### 7. Nomad [15]

1. Install Nomad on your vm
2. Set up a single-node nomad deployment on your vm
3. Deploy an nginx web server using nomad serving static content
4. Use the reverse proxy you set up earlier to proxy this *(any valid way of achieving this is okay)*

### 8. Scripts [20]

1. Write a cron job to cleanup dangling docker containers and images every 24 hours at midnight
2. Write a script that searches a directory for files containing a string from `$1`
3. Write a script (service) to auto-mount block devices. This should run in the background and not be attached to a specific tty.
4. Write a fun script that will amuse us
