# Section 1: GNU/Linux

1. What is systemd? What is an alternative to systemd?
1. What does the fork system call return?
1. Which of these system calls can be used to allocate memory?
    - sbrk
    - link
    - mmap
    - bind
1. How would you check which users are logged into a machine?
1. What command would you use to add yourself to the group `sap`?
    - After running this, you immediately try to cat a file owned by nobody:sap, with the permissions -rw-rw----. This fails with a permissions error. Why?
1. What is a signal? What system call is used to send signals to processes?
1. What is an environment variable? What is the significance of the `PATH` variable?
1. Which program can be used to list all of the running processes on a machine? How would you also show which command was used to launch the programs?
1. Give a situation where you would use each of the following programs:
    - w
    - grep
    - sed
    - swapon
    - free

# Section 2: File Systems

1. Where is a file's name stored?
1. What is a hard link? How do you create one? How does it differ from a soft link?
1. Which file contains the list of file systems to be mounted at the next boot?
1. What is NFS? Where and why would you use it?
1. What do the setuid and setgid bits do?
1. What is RAID? Explain each of the following RAID setups:
    - RAID0
    - RAID1
    - RAID10
1. Explain the following command:  
   `mount -o rw,sync,dirsync /dev/sda2 /redbrick/toilet-paper`
1. Explain what the following programs do:
    - sync
    - umount
    - df
    - du
    - stat
1. What do the following system calls do to files?
    - lseek
    - truncate
    - unlink
    - flock
1. Assuming ext4 is the file system being used, how does the rm command work? What happens to the inode?

# Section 3: Hardware

1. What does NIC stand for?
1. The air conditioning in your server room has failed. What do you do?
1. What is UEFI? Why is it important to boot and install servers in UEFI mode?
1. Redbrick has been offered a Dell R710 for a low price. What things would you consider before accepting it?
1. What is an IP-KVM? Why are they useful?
1. You turned on an old Redbrick server (with HDD’s) and it said “Insert disk and press any key”. Give 2 steps you would take to troubleshoot this issue.
1. What does UPS stand for? Where would you mount a UPS and why?
1. Why is it a bad idea to spin down hard disks in a DAS when there’s low load?
1. Give an advantage and disadvantage of putting your swap partition on an SSD
1. The power has gone out and we are running on UPS. It’s been 5 minutes. What do you do?

# Section 4: Networking

1. What is LACP? What does it do? Where would you find it being used?
1. What is a VLAN?
1. What is DNS? What port does it use?
1. You want to find out if there is a free IP on the network, how would you go about this? (Using ping is not answer)
1. What is the cidr notation of the subnet mask 255.255.255.0?
1. What is NAT? Where would you find it being used?
1. You want to use the cli on redbrick.dcu.ie how would you connect securely to Redbrick?
1. What is the difference between the following IPs? 192.168.0.1 and 2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:ff00:0042:8329
1. How many hosts would you find in the following subnet 192.168.0.0/23
1. What is a switch? What is a router? What do they do?

# Section 5: Security

1. Someone is trying to bruteforce a login. What would you implement to stop them after 3 incorrect attempts?
1. Give two files that are readable by root, what do they do?
1. What is a CVE database?
1. What is PAM?
1. How would you disable ssh login as root?
1. Why is chmod -R 777 /\* bad?
1. What is nmap? Why is it useful for anyone looking to attack?
1. Why shouldn’t you use telnet?
1. What is SELinux?
1. What is SSL?

# Section 6: Virtualisation/Containerisation

1. Give 2 scenarios where you would use a VM over a container.
1. What does “packing” refer to? Why are VMs bad at packing?
1. When you run “ps” on a container server, you can see all the container's processes too. Why is this?
1. What command would you use to list all libvirt VMs on a host?
1. What is the difference between bind mounts and volumes in Docker, in terms of where the data is stored?
1. Give an advantage and disadvantage of “host” networking in a Docker container.
1. What command would you use to download a Docker image from a registry? Give an example usage of this command.
1. Rank the following VM disk configurations in order of speed ascending: [LVM, IMG, RAW, QCOW2]
1. A Docker container keeps dying when you run it. How would you diagnose this?
1. With Docker-Compose, how would you view all the logs for all associated containers? How would you limit this to one service?

# Section 7: Redbrick

1. I’m a contractor. How would you explain where our server room is?
1. What tools exist in Redbrick to perform operations on LDAP?
1. What would be the full path to the home directory of member “mctastic”?
1. What is the default shell of new users on Redbrick?
1. What does Redbrick use LDAP for?
1. If IRC went down, how would you inform IRC users you are working on fixing it?
1. A user wants their username changed. Can you think of 2 things this might break?
1. A user tells you that they are on DCU campus but cannot connect to Redbrick via SSH or HTTPS - why might this be?
1. A user has hit their disk quota and wants an increase. Where is this configured?
1. How could you find users that have never logged in to Azazel?

# Section 8: Scripting

1. Write a script that will search for 3 specific curse words in  `files`, searching only text files.
1. Write a script to scan all users' directories for world editable files. Change their permissions to the correct permissions.
1. Write a Bash script that will watch a file for messages containing a given string.
1. Write a script that will scan for stopped Docker containers and remove them.
1. Write a script which will search your home directory for files older than a month and delete them.

# Section 9: Troubleshooting

1. SSH to your VM (ask your examiner for login details). Running “sudo systemctl status apache2” will show you that apache is not running.
1. Draft an email to the membership to convey the outage and expected return time to full service.
1. Before troubleshooting, list the possible causes of a web server not functioning.
1. List the steps you plan to take to troubleshoot the problem
1. Get the webserver back to full operation.
1. Document your fix below (ask if you need clarification on the headings). Even if you don’t fix the web server, fill it out with as much as you discovered during the troubleshooting process.
    - Title:  
      Status:  
      Summary:  
      Root Causes:


# Section 10: Practical

Install Grafana and Prometheus on your machine and configure Grafana to display some metrics collected by Prometheus (which you must add as a data source in Grafana).

In the practical, you need to document how you have installed Grafana and Prometheus, be it a bare metal installation, using containers, etc. This means explaining how the services are being run along with the purpose of each in the setup, and where on the filesystem they can be configured. Please remember to document the username and password for logging into any service, otherwise we can’t inspect your dashboard and you will get zero.
